(0:02 - 0:27)
Test one two, three four. Test one two, three four. Okay, so there's an interesting application for the old work I did at ABEX where I created a full technician training and OJT tracking system.

(0:28 - 3:25)
In this OJT tracking system, I have all of the prior files that made up the core of its function. The core of its function consists of a technician at a specific base that could record how many jobs they had performed against a list of things that are trainable on their training jacket. Additionally, that training jacket could have new items added to it if they were discovered and needed to be trained against in a blank fill-in section area. 

The core component of this OJT tracking system is that the student or technician would report that they had completed that job by assigning their name in a block and providing a date. Then their lead, who had the authority to train them, and for all intents and purposes could just be an authorized trainer, would then confirm they had indeed been trained on that specific item and had completed it. There was a flow for every single item that needed to be trained against, which consisted of the technician trainer or authorized trainer providing on-the-job training where they would perform the task and also explain it to the technician while they watched. 

The second would, the second instance of performing this task, would be done with the technician and helping where they needed, answering questions, and then the third would be on their own where the trainer watched and the technician was expected to complete the job on their own but was still inspected and signed off by the instructor. If the instructor found that it was satisfactory for them, their student, to be authorized to do this job on their own without any additional supervision in the future, then they would test them orally or practically in whatever manner that specific task required and if they passed then the individual would be fully signed off. At each stage the technician would receive a score that counted up the total amount of points for that specific task.

(3:26 - 4:13)
That task item, if you completed one, would be essentially one out of six points. If they had done it with the tech trainer and themselves then it would be two of six points and so on until they had fully completed their testing and been authorized, signed off on their own. This scoring system allowed for easy reporting of the status of all the training rolled up into charts and graphs where we would detect the number of times somebody had been trained and highlight the different areas and different tasks that they needed to work on or had completed.

(4:14 - 8:21)
Now overall the task system was architected to represent all the tasks on a specific aircraft. That specific aircraft in this case is a TBM. Now there are different variants of the TBM so for this intensive purpose was one training jacket for that style of aircraft. 

Each of their training items was broken into different sections and they were codified by initial training, basics, intermediate, advanced, and then specialties. And specialties could consist of a wide range of subtopics such as sheet metal or avionics installations or other hot spot and troubleshoot high touch items that could only be trusted with somebody who was trained such as AC servicing or replacement of cooling evaporators etc or aircraft painting. Then within each of these sections each of the tasks was arranged by ATA code in an ascending order where the lowest number ATA code would start and the highest would end. 

Then one additional area that is a little bit more blended and separate was run taxi qualifications for airframe and powerplant mechanics or other individuals who are uncertificated. This would track what aircraft they had run up, what safety procedures they had done, and how many times they had run up with an instructor and followed a similar set of rules but had internal checklists as well as sign-offs from authorized pilots and provided very good documentation for the process. That can be considered its own module as the generic training may transfer from airframe to airframe with specific unit modules for specific aircraft. 

Overall this was printed as a physical binder and given to a technician so that they could sign off what they had done physically. Then the binder periodically was given to their lead where they would catch up on all of the areas that were marked out as needing to be verified and then that binder would be returned to the chief inspector who would then update it in a master spreadsheet and create a digital copy so that the information was saved somewhere else than just paper. Then the chief inspector would recreate the entire binder with that digital information printed out and give it back to each technician. 

This obviously was a laborious process but also had a significant amount of value. What we are attempting to do now is transfer this system into a digital workplace and web app where technicians can automatically access their information where trainers can highlight their specific goals for the week, month, year and track their OKRs that are set up by the company in this page as well as as technicians work asynchronously to their leads with other trainers or within the organization they can indicate which items that they have completed and with which authorized trainers. That then allows the authorized trainer once that item is complete by the technician to automatically detect which items need to be signed off by them and they can add notes and also keep a training record for themselves of how many trainings they have performed.

(8:23 - 10:49)
And to who in a collapsible roll-up area. Then also the training provides different reports for the OJT items. This is something I built before but can be expanded to entire organizations in a digital format. 

In our reporting area we had a couple key items that were of use for planning. First was an assessment of the efficiency of the technician based off of general assumptions. If a technician had just started and they had no prior experience then we assumed them to be at a specific low utilization amount which takes their normal billable hours and changes it into calculated billable hours or hours actually available with a efficiency decrease. 

That allows us to apply their time one for one to scheduled work but apply a handicap to them so that they are not scheduled and the capacity system does not overestimate their capability in producing work due to their need for training as well as their inefficiency due to inexperience. Additionally if somebody is new and is onboarded but they have prior experience we can do an assessment of their prior experience through their resume as well as a verbal and capture sheet that allows us or a quiz that allows us to place them into a reasonable estimate on the initial efficiency that we want to set for that individual as well as providing them the ability to sign off or test out of a significant number of portions of the OJT sheet by providing prior experience and demonstrating their ability through a simple quiz or knowledge test. This then can be represented on their dashboard as what their current efficiency number is.

(10:50 - 13:23)
Then there's a chart that shows what targets they are supposed to hit as far as efficiency throughout the year and what growth curve we expect for them. Different technicians may have different growth curves as we don't hold everyone to the same standard due to their complicated set of prior experiences as well as aptitude. These scores and curves are something that can roll up to an admin level that gives both the leads as well as the management a view into who performs at what level and what degree you expect them to accelerate. 

This also helps highlight individuals who are the most performant technicians as well as using data to drive some of these insights rather than just hearsay or personal opinion. Additionally, the specific needs for this dashboard provide a radar chart with the individual's completion of OJT tasks in a specific airframe or engine. That radar chart shows the breakdown of different styles and different categories of tasks that have been completed by category. 

To make this chart, we actually add up the various categories and their scores out of the total potential score of the current training curriculum. That provides the percentage as well as the amount of progress that they have completed in actually fully finished tasks or in-process tasks, giving a very granular view of each task that needs to be completed rolled up to a specific major dashboard. That dashboard could show things like completion by ATA code or completion by category like general, intermediate, advanced, initial, and specialties.

(13:24 - 16:47)
That radar chart is useful and can also be done in a bar graph or other visualizations to show the composition of a team and provide the information to a manager or AI model to help organize teams by equal distribution of talent or by unequal distribution to advance a specific project with specific warnings for the potential impacts downstream of the overall efficiency as well as the overall skills and talents of that team as applied to those projects. For example, if a heavy sheet metal project requires four sheet metal technicians to get done within the amount of time that is scheduled but we only allocate one, it should provide a warning in a predictive manner within that work order based off of the contextual information in the work order and the assigned team in that work order. This is extremely useful for planning and allocating of resources and will always differ to the actual human-in-the-loop experience but allows for a composite of information to be delivered to the people making decisions about the work orders and their feasibility. 

This is extremely helpful especially when dealing with a manager who is unfamiliar with the specific specialties or the limitations of their team based off of their tooling, their experience, or their efficiency, preventing the team from getting off track in regards to scheduling and planning. This overall OJT program is extremely useful for motivating a technician especially within an organization. If a technician within an organization can watch their growth especially when compared to other people's growths then they are generally motivated through the gamification of their training tasks and what was mundane and seen of no value can become valuable to them even if they don't see the connective tissue between their performance, their work performance, and the overall growth of their company. 

It is also important to align incentives and recommend to the operators who use this system how to distribute incentives to their team through a standardized set of incentive templates that provide the overall rewards for or potential rewards for achieving different training goals. One very very specific thing to keep in mind though that this system tries to balance is that it is always in the eye of the holder and the trainer to sign off the technician as okay or not okay. The ultimate goal is to provide the technicians the tools they need to learn the tasks and to keep aircraft safe.

(16:48 - 23:36)
Secondarily or third is to improve the efficiency of the business. This ultimately is a dance because you do not want to incentivize people running through a bunch of training without them actually receiving the highest quality experience and the actual tools to perform their job. Additionally it's very important to maintain a balance where one is not incentivized to overall raise the number of efficiency over the actual due dates of the project. 

The efficiency numbers and actual applied available hours of a team or individual while important for planning purposes ultimately is not the KPI which should be relied on or an OKR that should be specifically prescribed to an individual because they that number is outside of their control. Although they control certain components of it their ability to meet those metrics is generally hampered by their assignment on tasks, their assignment to a team, their access and availability of tools, resources, aircraft maintenance manuals, technical documentation as well as planning and scheduling and other delays all of which are external to that technician. So while one day they may have 14 hours of overtime and be fully billable on a project which is commendable, the next day they may have 12 hours of unallocated time that goes to shop not because of their inability to perform their job but because the scheduling did not line up. 

This lumpiness and unequal distribution of work and inputs means that overall the efficiency numbers can be used for initial planning and to get a best guess of what capacity any shop has at any time especially looking forward being able to predict the growth of their individual technicians and their efficiencies but ultimately is a secondary measure when compared to the ultimate KPI which is on time delivery and then first time fix rate. The first time fix rate is the ultimate KPI for compliance and also customer satisfaction and then the second is on time delivery. You must have a high first time fix rate if you want to maintain your customers and maintain a compliant safe environment and that must be paramount. 

Secondarily on time delivery of an aircraft means that all of the planning components as well as inspections and repairs completed within the correct amount of time and all those inputs were handled correctly as good organizational practice allows. That KPI is the most important for organizing the organization and providing incentives for those individuals and employees. So collectively and then also individually there are ways to measure progress and to help training along but ultimately it is up to the individual to bring their best game to training and as the leads need if there are individuals who are not bringing their best game or not leaning forward and trying to do additional work instead of their normal assigned duties then it's up to the leads to assign the training that is most impactful for their specific results. 

However this is a system that should allow the visibility of what training is available and what opportunities exist within the business and then allow workers to self-organize into their preferences and most specific tasks that they like the most. This type of visibility is what is very motivating to people who have a gear or a different level of motivation internally and allows them to grow at a much higher rate and also highlights who should be rewarded unequally especially compared to their peers who are performing much less than them. It is generally lopsided who produces the most amount of work and even though this is a time constrained business and is constrained by the effort put out by an individual there can be wide variances in the actual efficiency as well as the breadth scope and accuracy of their work depending on the individual and their capacity and their willingness to learn. 

Overall this system should provide the framework in which someone can be empowered to learn as well as the incentives and the context that allows them to and find their specific traits and strengths that they want to focus on and build and grow. Now something that we had not built into this application that I think will be game changing for the entire industry and very motivating for people is the ability for an individual to the ability for an individual to see all of their training and a summary of all the things that they have worked on as well as all the aircraft which they have worked on and to which degree. This is a black box in the current industry there is absolutely no current solutions for recording summarizing and showing the actual aircraft that people worked on let alone the extent and what systems that they are most proficient on within those aircraft.

(23:37 - 24:22)
The aviation authority FAA has some requirements for certifications but it is some of the most simple certifications that there is allowing people to work on nearly any aircraft without restriction regardless of training. Repair stations have a higher responsibility and legal requirement to track the training of their individuals against a specific aircraft and the systems that they are capable of performing through capabilities lists and other things. However it is far from perfect and does not have the basic utility that this app could provide.

(24:23 - 25:29)
There is another app that I have developed for Elevate MRO using AI to look at someone's prior resumes and their companies. This is called the Elevate MRO app. I have all the code for it and what it allows you to do is upload your resume when you're in docking and it provides you contextual information for all the places you worked and all the aircraft you might have worked on. 

It correlates this with an overall table of the existing aircraft in the FAA database provides a single index for airframe power plant engine avionics and other systems with common nomenclature and naming so that there is one single source of truth for what things are named. This is a surprisingly difficult problem as there actually is a wide variety of nomenclature used to name different airframe power plant engines and components for avionics and otherwise that is not standardized against the industry. This is a problem that we have largely solved within this app although it could use some refinement.

(25:31 - 29:22)
This app then looks through each of your employment areas and does research about those specific experiences and all the possible aircraft that it knows from the internet you may have worked on in the past and then provides you those as a featured list of aircraft that you might want to select as prior experience. Then within each of those experiences it takes the time which you were at that specific location or specific company and applies it to the airframes that you were on. It also will roll this up between different companies if you worked on the same reference with different companies. 

This overall architecture allows the total time of your experience to be calculated. What is missing from this is the actual depth of your experience. While there are some filters and buttons that show different specialties that you may have been familiar with such as engine power plant or things like sheet metal or avionics and cells a much higher granularity would be helpful. 

Anyway this specific application then spits out an interactive dashboard that allows you to add, modify, move around, but ultimately capture all of the different entries for all the different articles that you worked on airframe, power plant, engine, avionics and gives you an overall for your career view of everything you've worked on. This then goes into a area for your training and also includes your current employment and continually updates your current experience with new numbers as your experience grows. This can be combined with the training app and the OJT stuff and ultimately while one organization will have access to all the information within that organization and the prior training of that individual the individual will be able to log into this application with their own login and will be able to access their updated resume which combines all of this information into an active and updated resume with all of your information that you need for applying to new jobs as well as an overall breakdown of the training which you have received and an explanation of the things which you have done. 

This specific component allows you to have a profile where you can be discovered by other employers who can see this information and then can be recruited through a marketplace platform that we have under development. Additionally this area allows you to check other certifications and things that may be outside of your place of employment such as IA renewal status, explanation of the types of training and inspections that you need to perform as well as gathering and saving all of that evidence. Similar things can include what repairman certificates you have, what experience you have outside of work say part 91 aircraft maintenance or different experimental aircraft builds etc and this old profile allows people even who are not within a organization to feed all of their information in in a similar way that the OJT program does and allow people to self-record and modify their own training.

(29:25 - 57:07)
That essentially becomes a separate because it's unverified by the employer but very similar OJT tracking system or mechanic logbook that can take and interpret your experiences as you input them ask you the appropriate contextual questions and place down the type of experience that you have had on things outside of a specific organization that's not managed by a specific chief inspector or accountable manager. This will allow you to also contextualize the other types of experience that you have within the industry and what they mean and how they convert and how they are applicable to experience within aviation and so in addition to the actual airframe and other things this will allow you to record other experiences and create a compelling story that you may or may not realize is valuable at the time that allows an individual to build a profile as a student while they're in school and then present it to employers when they are ready to be hired. Overall this will include some of the marketplace items such as automatic resume generation from prior experience as well as interview prep based on an AI that provides a highly evaluated flow of work where the individual is asked a series of questions and then evaluated on their answers through multiple iterative loops that allow the user to learn about the process as well as refine their answers and discover things about themselves and then the AI can take all that information contextualize it and provide the best answers going forward as well as recommendations for additional learning opportunities and ways to effectively fill the gaps in their resume before they attempt to get hired. 

There will be an additional skill bridge type program built in with this program that is specifically oriented for military personnel who did any type of mechanic work and want to convert over to a FAA AMP license through school or through testing and this will provide the contextual information to perform those jobs as well as to do all the same functions as a civilian with the added context of the military specific context. Now let's go back to the OJT component and let's talk a little bit about some things I think I may have missed. In the OJT component currently written is only one specific aircraft for which there are a number of sections and tasks under those sections correlated by ATA code and other tags. 

However there is an ability that needs to be added we're going to add multiple aircraft and have shared items that are applicable for all aircraft or individual sets of aircraft as is described by the person creating the training allowing tasks to be linked so that one task that is applicable for multiple aircraft can be filled out once and be shown on all of these sheets but also fully different training flows and tasks and items to be completed within these items. Overall this then allows the user to see in their reporting not just that specific aircraft roll up and their tasks inside of that but one level higher where it can show the total level of completion between all categories of tasks as well as the total completion numbers for specific aircraft and your capabilities in which. This allows multiple base teams with multiple fleets of different types of aircraft to maintain their current capacity and the expertise which they have among those airplanes. 

One very important thing to note is that within all of the user input there should be the capability of providing notes via voice and attaching whisper flow or some other AI workflow thing to make transcripts of the specific notes that they're making and translate them into text so that a mechanic who has a difficulty typing or poor spelling can more accurately put their information in while still being able to edit it later. This should be a ubiquitous feature throughout the application so that those who want to use it can. Additionally there should be spell checking incorporated with all user input perhaps prior by Grammarly or some similar system that we homebrew so that standard spelling mistakes are caught a higher majority or a higher number of mechanics are dyslexic and also on purpose did not go to standard college because of the difficulty of these specific tasks yet are brilliant when it comes to their mechanical knowledge. 

We want to make the app as frictionless as possible for the users so that they have the capability of making entries as easily as possible. Overall the look and feel design of this app should be very simple even though it covers extremely complex tasks. This should be the user interface should allow for enough modularity and consistent design so it's easy to navigate but also enough granularity so that users feel like they have the capability of adding the appropriate context they need without being overwhelmed. 

This is a trade-off and we'll use human-in-the-loop decision making to help guide your decisions on this component. Then let's talk about certifications. This is something that has not yet been completed but this is more of an ideating stage. 

Overall within a organization there are different certifications that can be attained right now. One of the easiest is an FAA diamond award where we literally just apply for certification for a diamond award by having users do a minimum of 12 hours of FAA approved training online or more easily by performing a significant amount of training in-house and that training in-house can be recorded and applied for for AMT hours. This uses the FAA fast system for mechanics in the AMT corner and those hours can be tracked and if every individual in the company has 12 hours then we can apply on behalf of the organization for that diamond award. 

This is a function that should be included. Additionally there are other inspections and statuses that can be achieved within organizations like a 145 repair station and a 135 operation with mechanics and this ends up being Wyvern Wingman certifications as well as Isbail inspections and other international standards that can be applied to the repair station as well as the mechanics who are working within them. There's also individual mechanic awards for how much training they complete within a year and some of this may be able to be leveraged by the training system by actually documenting the things that they do and applying for FAA credit. 

Outside of this there is an important development that needs to happen which allows a user to or allows our organization to create a standard of training that does not yet exist in the United States or internationally. We can think of this as the actual maintainer oriented certification as well as organizational certification. This would allow for us to evaluate the overall training records of a specific organization and provide feedback to them in a continual ongoing audit that allows them to self-report the different things that they have with their organization and then it be audited by an AI against these standards and given a provisional score before it can be reviewed by a human and actual certificate applied. 

But some of the best practices as well as habits and learnings and behaviors that we want to instill within the industry can be placed at the heart of some of these organizations in this OJT and we can effectively track against each individual at a granular level what they have and have not done and that can give a gamified score for a specific type of certification for an individual mechanic. This also has the same problems as the gamification of other specific aviation maintenance incentives where we don't want people to just complete as much training as possible without actually knowing it or doing anything with it. But that is something that we can do human in the loop review so that we create specific training that is and standards that help identify those individuals who have taken an additional step and are proficient and align the correct incentives for them. 

This overall standard will then allow for a common language to be formed within the industry. There's a big problem and this is the problem that this solves is coming up with common language so we can understand each other's training and capabilities when within the aviation niche of maintenance there are a significantly high variability in types of aircraft and tasks that are performed and familiarity with specific niches. For example, helicopter mechanics have a wide array of helicopters and know almost none of the terminology for fixed wing and vice versa. 

Also, jet mechanics are an extremely different breed than those who are working on piston GA aircraft. It's almost a wholly different world as far as the expectations of their customers and the realities of their day-to-day job even though they're working within the same regulations. This is also true of turboprop aircraft versus ultra long-range jets. 

Turboprop aircraft require a much different approach and different skills and tooling than ultra long-range jets. Overall, there's other items like avionics installs, sheet metal work, and then management skills that can all be evaluated within the system and different emergent certifications and awards can be created that really represent what specific values people have but democratize their access to the rest of the industry so they don't have to pay like $1,700 to go to an MBA course for business that is mostly inaccessible to the majority of aircraft mechanics. While there are analogs to these systems and other industries and there are existing systems, none of them complete the primary goal which is total saturation within the entire market of all 140,000 aircraft mechanics in the United States and then ultimately the capability of extrapolating the system further into the world by tackling different countries with different air regulations and different systems and aircraft. 

Overall, the goal of our specific application for Athlon as well as this OJT component add-on and all of the things that were borrowed from the MRO app from Elevate etc. are to provide reduced friction in training and management of existing operations and empowering individuals to find their best batch for jobs as well as their most efficient path forward in their career within a specific organization for the entire industry. Helping solve some of the burning problems with onboarding new technicians who have a lack of knowledge in the brain drain and silver tsunami which is coming to aviation where over the next five to ten years we'll lose 86 percent of our prior mechanics and don't have the ability to transfer that information from the old mechanics to the new mechanics. 

This essentially is an application that will codify the best practices of the industry and enable to transfer that information much more seamlessly and while it's no replacement for actual work it helps organize the actual work that makes it much more efficient and also can do things for the industry that make it overall more efficient and easier to use and make more money for each of the individual operators. So now let's talk about Athlon and some of the global aspects of a product at scale. So far up until this point we've talked about the specifics for a program which serves the needs of a organization as well as an individual mechanic but now let's talk about the overall collective information and data that can be used to create products for the overall industry increasing the efficiency across the entirety of the 145 world and part 135 world. 

The way that we will do this is by gathering enough data to have a significant sample size of both 135 operators as well as 145 operators. The way that we accomplish this is by taking the data from those operators first from a fleet view. The most key component is to figure out what specific trends are happening with specific aircraft down to the specific model and subtype and combining that information with the use cases of that user. 

First we will identify the specific requirements of that aircraft based off of its published maintenance manual as well as including an improvement loop that provides all updates to its maintenance manual in a contextual area that allows a global control for all predictive maintenance outlooks for different schedules. The way that this works is that in chapter five of an aircraft maintenance manual per the ATA codes as well as a few other areas in the manual we can derive the actual maintenance schedules that are approved by the aircraft maintenance manufacturer that are approved data by the FAA. This approved data can be used to produce the schedules in different logics that are required to schedule aircraft for future maintenance. 

While this seems like a trivial task it is far from it and it is fairly unsolved within the industry. Although we have things like camp systems for camp task cards and due dates and a real disconnect between what is actually in the manual and that specific aircraft and what is required for your individual fleet. Normally this is work that is offset for a specific maintenance department where a maintenance manager has to go in and manage the aircraft individually and do all this work from the manual and interpret the manual and keep track and build up his own excel spreadsheets or own system to track all this information or pay for a tracking software but he still provides the initial information. 

What we can do as an organization that has a large sample size of different part 135 aircraft that are under independent charter or group charter we can access the information from those manuals and build a predictive common area that allows you to select an aircraft and it automatically generates the overall history and schedule for that airplane. This is generally in the form of different phase inspections because most large aircraft are on phase inspections instead of annuals but it will also allow for the annual component within an aircraft that's operated only in part 91 and not on a phase inspection schedule. This allows for the different caveats between piston, turboprop, twin jet, and helicopters within the FARs as they all have different caveats and specific operational requirements. 

Once we have this in mind then we can see which specific life limited components, which specific inspections, and which specific repairs or other preventative maintenance need to be done. Now what's interesting is that there's generally two triggers for these specific maintenance actions either a date or a total time or total cycles. So it's either based off of a date by calendar or by usage whichever comes first or whichever is greater depending on how each individual thing is written. 

This creates a kaleidoscope of different specific scheduling problems and it is incapable for a human to accurately track this beyond different models of aircraft which greatly prohibits the organization from being able to expand further their reach and their specific models that they work on due to the inability to know what to actually do on that aircraft. This often creates a hot potato situation between operators and maintenance people where a operator comes in and asks for a specific event the maintainer or 145 organization accepts and then they discover through their other individual research that there's actually additional items that need to be added to the original quote but because it was a quote not an estimate the user generally does not approve this information unless it's like a hard error in this requirement but it generally is lost in communication it's difficult to communicate. This ultimately then delays, outdates, even though all this information was able to be ascertained before this transaction and causes consternation and very regularly causes disagreements and bad customer satisfaction as well as bad customer views from the part 145 repair station perspective. 

This type of friction can be eliminated by accurately tracking and then specifically projecting out what items will be due on the aircraft at all times based off of the chapter recommendations for that specific serial number which is something that can be done with the correct orchestration with access to the maintenance manuals. There may be a regulatory, not a regulatory, there might be a terms of use breach here if the manufacturer does not allow it to be read by AI but I think that if you were to collect all this information and then have human in loop confirm it while there's still a gray area before this is defined in their terms and conditions that we could effectively scrape all of the aircraft information in the market before being discovered and legally not be held liable for that information. That is a consideration that needs additional research. 

Anyway, the second component of this is providing a user to then apply their specific operational profile for that company and the way that we do this is by self-reporting what specific times and cycles accomplished by that aircraft up into the specific date or at a prior date. Any date and time will work but closer to real time is more accurate. Then we can use ADS-B to reconstruct the actual aircraft flight history and then track continually what type of aircraft usage patterns exist through ADS-B data tracking total time in air as well as total cycle. 

This is not the actual number but can relatively accurately reveal a good estimated guess for the total hops time and cycles of an aircraft. This is different than tack time because tack time is based off of oil pressure but for all intents and purposes can be used for this type of planning. A correction factor can be added later on to convert to tack time which can change the overall maintenance schedule. 

Then established for a specific company within that specific aircraft and use case we can do some light checking of their aircraft logs or self-reporting where they say yes in the last 12 months or in the last 18 months here's the main items that we predicted needed to be and they can confirm whether they were or not and then if to go even deeper for an onboarding of a specific aircraft and customer we can actually upload all of the prior aircraft logbook information and have it scanned and do OCR text recognition and then compile all that information through a Python library that contextualizes and tags every single item basically created from Blue Tail Aviation in a more robust, agentic way that allows the user to effectively search all of the historical maintenance records for that aircraft and create an operational history profile. With that operational profile then do more accurate predictions as well as reviews and maintenance records as well as provide a basis for pre-buy inspections on specific aircraft as an ancillary service. Overall this without the logbook scanning can still be a very powerful predictive indicator for users. 

Additionally this is most effective and is most targeted for um or 135 charters who want to ascertain the future maintenance schedules of their aircraft. In terms of a person who is trying to gain more business they can actually look at an individual customer in their end number and then do all this work to create a uh profile uh on that specific aircraft. That profile is then contains all of this predictive information and they can look at and then set reminders for when maintenance events may be scheduled by creating a time on a calendar that is plus several months or days in front of them just generally three weeks or more um so that they can contact that customer at that specific time and create a sales pipeline based off of their predicted maintenance for that aircraft even without having talked to that customer.

(57:08 - 58:16)
This is extremely powerful for curating lists and actually accurately fitting different customers within your instead of blindly signing people up for anyone who will say yes and getting uneven scheduled maintenance that is not level loaded throughout the year. Level loading is the heart of a specific maintenance operation and is extremely important protecting the integrity as there's a thin line between overproduction and underproduction and one of the major threats to an organization within aircraft maintenance is having to re-hire talent because their understanding of that aircraft and comfort within their systems is the major factor in success versus failure for 145 organizations. True within part 135 organizations due to their inability to rely on their internal team to for maintenance and their need to go to 145 organizations to accomplish those tasks for them.

(58:17 - 1:05:13)
This is extremely lucrative but also one that is highly sensitive to shifts in labor and capacity and it is very important that customer updates and predicted maintenance is done on time so that no one overflies their ADs compliance is met and safety is ensured for all types of their situations. Now overall more important contextualization where a fleet of operators can actually then use specific schedules and schedule maintenance out over three years in advance but do so without having to have a team of analysts AI to create these specific overviews and within doing that is then able to for operating the aircraft where they are in the moment able to reschedule all of their different operations based off of the usage of their aircraft and their planned maintenance. There are ideal times to combine maintenance and then there's other times where the aircraft will drop dead and the leeway between the drop dead and ideal times is what needs to be optimized within the system. 

This thing can give the operator a specific profile and different opportunistic windows that they can marry with scheduling and planning within part 145 organizations and also create backup plans and tertiary plans for specific maintenance if some of the capacity is not available within the maintenance system and their preferred providers. Also using this application's effective auditing a individual operator should be able to actually do a reverse audit of those maintenance organizations using the software that are connected to it or an overall view of the specific software or specific maintenance organization where they create a hit list of the most effective secondary and tertiary vendors that are outside of their main providers or establishment providers if they have none. Overall the specifics of this program allow operators to then throttle and plan for different operational schedules and tempos and profiles for their aircraft so that they have a smooth running operation where maintenance is performed and they have backup plans for coverage that are more rather rely on the compilation and composite data of the entire fleet and their predictive maintenance. 

Now moving away from that the next very very very important component of a global integration and at scale performance of this application is the ability to perform labeled data collection for how long it takes to accomplish specific tasks overall within the industry. This is something that allows the user or the overall company that owns the software at Aveli to look at how long it actually takes people to perform different maintenance actions across a wide variety of applications in all specific scenarios in all trainings and also all specific work orders and items and tasks and then use AI to contextualize those specific times with specific problems or other notes and turnover items to figure out in an anonymized way how those specific tasks are completed and how long those averages take take into account the specific assignments of different individuals who have different levels of efficiency and training versus those who have a high level of training and efficiency and correlating those two different times and efficiency levels on efficiency scores. This is a large data project but ultimately can synthesize the corpus of data for the entirety of the industry across all makes and models of aircraft to provide basically a common quote book for the amount of time it should take your specific mechanics to accomplish a task based on industry standards. 

These industry standards then correlate for the adoption of technology, the reduction in workforce efficiencies, the increase in training or vice versa for the entire industry and provide KPIs and benchmarks for the entirety of the industry. These benchmarks are extremely valuable because they allow for more accurate quoting for both the operator and the maintainer and provide composite price mapping across the entire industry for who has the lowest and who has the highest prices, which ones are highest valued, which one have the risks of different potential pencil whipping or non-compliance versus the ones that are providing equal service or higher service for less money or more money but you get what you pay for type of thing. This overall composite data view is extremely useful and can be fed into the common quote books so that individuals can do potential research and guess when trying to onboard new customers and new aircraft that they're unfamiliar with or reconstruct data from a broken system where they might have done a job for 40 years but they don't know the difference between what it should take a mechanic who is three months on the job versus the mechanic who's been there for 40 years.

(1:05:15 - 1:07:12)
This type of insight effectively creates a labeled data room with um uh different filters for a ultimate corpus of data for the entire industry allowing the industry to run more efficiently and provides an extremely valuable service for quoting and benchmarking within the industry and with your team composition can give you an accurate estimate of how long it should take you to accomplish a specific job. This additionally can be used to provide a overlook of what specific tools are needed for what specific jobs all the way down to hand tools they're not caught up on the manual and those that are. These specific tooling and facility requirements can be derived from the FAA minimums as well as industry practices and can be correlated between the different tool rooms and tool checkout signatures in all organizations to create a composite view that allows a common quote book to show all tools which are recommended for that specific job based off of the manufacturer's recommendations as well as actual industry practice with the caveat that every maintainer must make their own decisions and their own initial determinations and software is not on behalf of the information it presents. 

This is an overall brain dump and doesn't contain all the information about this specific system or this specific app however it is a very good place to start organizing some of our thoughts about the overall goals of the software and aviation and how to integrate all of these items into the industry.